Enable Circular Boundaries Correction (#24006)
idaholab/moose: framework/doc/content/source/meshgenerators/CircularBoundaryCorrectionGenerator.md

# CircularBoundaryCorrectionGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/CircularBoundaryCorrectionGenerator

## Overview

The `CircularBoundaryCorrectionGenerator` object performs radius correction to preserve circular area considering polygonization effect for full or partial circular boundaries in a 2D mesh.

> In a 2D mesh, a "circular boundary" consists of sides that connects a series of nodes on the circle, which actually form a polygon boundary. Due to the polygonization effect, the area within a "circular boundary" in a 2D mesh is actually smaller than a real circle with the same radius. Such a discrepancy could cause issues in some simulations that involve physics that is sensitive to volume conservation (e.g., neutronics).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a 2D mesh, a "circular boundary" consists of sides that connect a series of nodes on the circle, which actually form a polygon boundary. Due to the polygonization effect, the area within a "circular boundary" in a 2D mesh is actually smaller than a real circle with the same radius. Such a discrepancy could cause issues in some simulations that involve physics that are sensitive to volume conservation.
```

Reviewer: fuel performance is just as sensitive, and so is fluid flow if your channel doesnt have the same flow area

> Therefore, a corrected radius can be used to generate the "circle-like" polygon to enforce that the polygon area is the same as the original circle without polygonization. This can be achieved through the following equations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, a corrected radius can be used to generate the "circle-like" polygon to enforce that the polygon area is the same as the original circle without polygonization. This can be achieved with either of the follow approaches.
```

!equation id=polygon_area
S_{polygon}=\frac12r_{polygon}^2\Sigma_i~\sin \theta_i

with

!equation id=azi
\Theta_{total}=\Sigma_i~\theta_i

$\Theta_{total}$ should be $2\pi$ for a full circle and between 0 to $2\pi$ for a partial circle. For such a full or partial real circle, the area has the following form:

!equation id=circle_area
S_{circle}=\frac{\Theta_{total}}{2}r_{circle}^2=\frac12r_{circle}^2\Sigma_i~\theta_i

To enforce that $S_{polygon}=S_{circle}$, the radii of the polygon and the circle have the following relation,

!equation id=relation
r_{polygon}=\sqrt{\frac{\Sigma_i~\theta_i}{\Sigma_i~\sin \theta_i}}r_{circle}=f_{corr}r_{circle}

Where $f_{corr}$ is the correction factor used in this object to ensure volume preservation.

!media mesh_modifiers/circular_correction.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:60%;
      id=schematic
      caption=A schematic drawing showing the two approaches to correct the polygonization effect for a partial circular boundary

> ### Azimuthally Displacing Nodes in the Span Direction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Azimuthally Displacing Nodes in the Span Direction

```
check the website, this doesnt look right

The radial nodes moving approach is undoubtedly the most generalized approach for a full circular boundary. However, for a partial circular boundary, moving the two end nodes in their radial directions may deform the original shape. Therefore, moving the end nodes in the span direction of the partial circular boundary (i.e., arc) provides an alternative approach (see the right subfigure of [schematic]). Moving the end nodes in the span direction inevitably changes the azimuthal angle intervals. To make this change consistent for all the boundary sides, a scaling coefficient, $c$, is applied to every $\theta_i$.

> 

Reviewer: this is controlled by move_end_nodes_in_span_direction right?
but this only refers to the end nodes. 

and it does not convey that there is then no radial displacement right?

maybe the right parameter would be a method enum, like correction_method = "radial" or "azimuthal"

Author: Even if the end nodes are moved in the span direction, the other nodes will also be moved in the radial direction. The only difference is the other nodes will also be moved in azimuthal direction.

Reviewer: Makes sense.

!equation id=scaling_theta
\theta_i^{corr}=c\theta_i

!equation id=span_relation
f=\frac{r_{polygon}}{r_{circle}}=\frac{cos\left(\Sigma_i~\theta_i/2\right)}{cos\left(c\Sigma_i~\theta_i/2\right)}=\sqrt{\frac{\Sigma_i~\theta_i-\sin\left(\Sigma_i~\theta_i\right)}{\Sigma_i~\sin\left(c\theta_i\right)-\sin\left(c\Sigma_i~\theta_i\right)}}

!equation id=span_relation_2

> f^2=\frac{1+cos\left(\Sigma_i~\theta_i\right)}{1+cos\left(c\Sigma_i~\theta_i\right)}=\frac{\Sigma_i~\theta_i-\sin\left(\Sigma_i~\theta_i\right)}{\Sigma_i~\sin\left(c\theta_i\right)-\sin\left(c\Sigma_i~\theta_i\right)}

Reviewer: \cos ?

# CircularBoundaryCorrectionGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/CircularBoundaryCorrectionGenerator

## Overview

> The `CircularBoundaryCorrectionGenerator` object performs radius correction to preserve circular area considering polygonization effect for full or partial circular boundaries in a 2D mesh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `CircularBoundaryCorrectionGenerator` object performs radius correction to preserve circular area considering polygonization effect for full or partial circular boundaries in a 2D mesh within the `Z=0` plane.
```

In a 2D mesh, a "circular boundary" consists of sides that connect a series of nodes on the circle, which actually form a polygon boundary. Due to the polygonization effect, the area within a "circular boundary" in a 2D mesh is actually smaller than a real circle with the same radius. Such a discrepancy could cause issues in some simulations that involve physics that are sensitive to volume conservation.

> Therefore, a corrected radius can be used to generate the "circle-like" polygon to enforce that the polygon area is the same as the original circle without polygonization. This can be achieved with either of the follow approaches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, a corrected radius can be used to generate the "circle-like" polygon to enforce that the polygon area is the same as the original circle without polygonization. This can be achieved with either of the following approaches.
```

!equation id=polygon_area
S_{polygon}=\frac12r_{polygon}^2\Sigma_i~\sin \theta_i

with

!equation id=azi
\Theta_{total}=\Sigma_i~\theta_i

$\Theta_{total}$ should be $2\pi$ for a full circle and between 0 to $2\pi$ for a partial circle. For such a full or partial real circle, the area has the following form:

!equation id=circle_area
S_{circle}=\frac{\Theta_{total}}{2}r_{circle}^2=\frac12r_{circle}^2\Sigma_i~\theta_i

To enforce that $S_{polygon}=S_{circle}$, the radii of the polygon and the circle have the following relation,

!equation id=relation
r_{polygon}=\sqrt{\frac{\Sigma_i~\theta_i}{\Sigma_i~\sin \theta_i}}r_{circle}=f_{corr}r_{circle}

Where $f_{corr}$ is the correction factor used in this object to ensure volume preservation.

!media mesh_modifiers/circular_correction.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:60%;
      id=schematic
      caption=A schematic drawing showing the two approaches to correct the polygonization effect for a partial circular boundary

> ### Azimuthally Displacing Nodes in the Span Direction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Optional additional circular boundary expansion in the span direction
```

Reviewer: conveys better that it s radial + this

> The radial nodes moving approach is undoubtedly the most generalized approach for a full circular boundary. However, for a partial circular boundary, moving the two end nodes in their radial directions may deform the original shape. Therefore, moving the end nodes in the span direction of the partial circular boundary (i.e., arc) provides an alternative approach (see the right subfigure of [schematic]). Moving the end nodes in the span direction inevitably changes the azimuthal angle intervals. To make this change consistent for all the boundary sides, a scaling coefficient, $c$, is applied to every $\theta_i$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moving the radial nodes is undoubtedly the most generalized approach for a full circular boundary. However, for a partial circular boundary, moving the two end nodes in their radial directions may deform the original shape. Therefore, moving the end nodes in the span direction of the partial circular boundary (i.e., arc) provides an alternative approach (see the right subfigure of [schematic]). Moving the end nodes in the span direction inevitably changes the azimuthal angle intervals. To make this change consistent for all the boundary sides, a scaling coefficient, $c$, is applied to every $\theta_i$.
```
